<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 id="id01863" style="margin-top: 3em">XX</h3>
			<h5 id="id01864">WAR</h5>
			<p id="id01865">But why?⁠—he asked himself as he swung his cab aimlessly away⁠—why that blind rage with which he had welcomed Wertheimer’s overtures?</p>
			<p id="id01866">Unquestionably the business of blackmailing was despicable enough; and as a master cracksman, of the highest caste of the criminal world, the Lone Wolf had warrantably treated with scorn and contempt the advances of a pariah like Wertheimer. But in no such spirit had he comprehended the Englishman’s meaning, when finally that one came to the point; no cool disdain had coloured his attitude, but in the beginning hot indignation, in the end insensate rage.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01867">He puzzled himself. That fit of passion had all the aspect of a psychical inconsistency impossible to reconcile with reason.</p>
			<p id="id01868">He recalled in perplexity how, toward the last, the face of the Englishman had swum in haze before his eyes; with what disfavour, approaching hatred, he had regarded its fixed, false smirk; with what loathing he had suffered the intimacy of Wertheimer’s tone; how he had been tempted to fly at the man’s throat and shake him senseless in reward of his effrontery: emotions that had suited better a man of unblemished honour and integrity subjected to the insolent addresses of a contemptible blackguard, emotions that might well have been expected of the man Lanyard had once dreamed to become.</p>
			<p id="id01869">But now, since he had resigned that infatuate ambition and turned apostate to all his vows, his part in character had been to laugh in Wertheimer’s face and bid him go to the devil ere a worse thing befall him. Instead of which, he had flown into fury. And as he sat brooding over the wheel, he knew that, were the circumstances to be duplicated, his demeanour would be the same.</p>
			<p id="id01870">Was it possible he had changed so absolutely in the course of that short-lived spasm of reform?</p>
			<p id="id01871">He cried no to that: knowing well what he contemplated, that all his plans were laid and serious mischance alone could prevent him from putting them into effect, feeling himself once more quick with the wanton, ruthless spirit of the Lone Wolf, invincibly self-sufficient, strong and cunning.</p>
			<p id="id01872">When at length he roused from his reverie, it was to discover that his haphazard course had taken him back toward the heart of Paris; and presently, weary with futile cruising and being in the neighbourhood of the Madeleine, he sought the cab-rank there, silenced his motor, and relapsed into morose reflections so profound that nothing objective had any place in his consciousness.</p>
			<p id="id01873">Thus it was that without his knowledge a brace of furtive thugs were able to slouch down the rank, scrutinizing it covertly but in detail, pause opposite Lanyard’s car under pretext of lighting cigarettes, identify him to their satisfaction, and hastily take themselves off.</p>
			<p id="id01874">Not until they were quite disappeared did the driver of the cab ahead dare warn him.</p>
			<p id="id01875">Lounging back, this last looked the adventurer over inquisitively.</p>
			<p id="id01876">“Is it, then,” he enquired civilly, when Lanyard at length looked round, “that you are in the bad books of the good General Popinot, my friend?”</p>
			<p id="id01877">“Eh⁠—what’s that you say?” Lanyard asked, with a stare of blank misapprehension.</p>
			<p id="id01878">The man nodded wisely. “He who is at odds with Popinot,” he observed, sententious, “does well not to sleep in public. You did not see those two who passed just now and took your number⁠—rats of Montmartre, if I know my Paris! You were dreaming, my friend, and it is my impression that only the presence of those two flies over the way prevented your immediate assassination. If I were you, I should go away very quickly, and never stop till I had put stout walls between myself and Popinot.”</p>
			<p id="id01879">A chill of apprehension sent a shiver stealing down Lanyard’s spine.</p>
			<p id="id01880">“You’re sure?”</p>
			<p id="id01881">“But of a certainty, my old one!”</p>
			<p id="id01882">“A thousand thanks!”</p>
			<p id="id01883">Jumping down, the adventurer cranked the motor, sprang back to his seat, and was off like a hunted hare.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01884">And when, more than an hour later, he brought his panting car to a pause in a quiet and empty back-street of the Auteuil quarter, after a course that had involved the better part of Paris, it was with the conviction that he had beyond question shaken off pursuit⁠—had there in fact been any attempt to follow him.</p>
			<p id="id01885">He took advantage of that secluded spot to substitute false numbers for those he was licensed to display; then at a more sedate pace followed the line of the fortifications northward as far as La Muette, where, branching off, he sought and made a circuit of two sides of the private park enclosing the hotel of Madame Omber.</p>
			<p id="id01886">But the mansion showed no lights, and there was nothing in the aspect of the property to lead him to believe that the chatelaine had as yet returned to Paris.</p>
			<p id="id01887">Now the night was still young, but Lanyard had his cab to dispose of and not a few other essential details to arrange before he could take definite steps toward the reincarnation of the Lone Wolf.</p>
			<p id="id01888">Picking a most circumspect route across the river⁠—via the Pont Mirabeau⁠—to the all-night telegraph bureau in the rue de Grenelle he despatched a cryptic message to the Minister of War, then with the same pains to avoid notice made back toward the rue des Acacias. But it wasn’t possible to recross the Seine secretly⁠—in effect, at least⁠—without returning the way he had come⁠—a long detour that irked his impatient spirit to contemplate.</p>
			<p id="id01889">Unwisely he elected to cross by way of the Pont des Invalides⁠—how unwisely was borne in upon him almost as soon as he turned from the brilliant Quai de la Conference into the darkling rue François Premier. He had won scarcely twenty yards from the corner when, with a rush, its motor purring like some great tiger-cat, a powerful touring-car swept up from behind, drew abreast, but instead of passing checked speed until its pace was even with his own.</p>
			<p id="id01890">Struck by the strangeness of this manoeuvre, he looked quickly round, to recognize the moon-like mask of De Morbihan grinning sardonically at him over the steering-wheel of the black car.</p>
			<p id="id01891">A second hasty glance discovered four men in the tonneau. Lacking time to identify them, Lanyard questioned their character as little as their malign intent: Belleville bullies, beyond doubt, drafted from Popinot’s batallions, with orders to bring in the Lone Wolf, dead or alive.</p>
			<p id="id01892">He had instant proof that his apprehensions were not exaggerated. Of a sudden De Morbihan cut out the muffler and turned loose, full strength, the electric horn. Between the harsh detonations of the exhaust and the mad, blatant shrieks of the warning, a hideous clamour echoed and reechoed in that quiet street⁠—a din in which the report of a revolver-shot was drowned out and went unnoticed. Lanyard himself might have been unaware of it, had he not caught out of the corner of his eye a flash that spat out at him like a fiery serpent’s tongue, and heard the crash of the window behind him as it fell inward, shattered.</p>
			<p id="id01893">That the shot had no immediate successor was due almost wholly to<br/>
			Lanyard’s instant and instinctive action.<br/></p>
			<p id="id01894">Even before the clash of broken glass registered on his consciousness, he threw in the high-speed and shot away like a frightened greyhound.</p>
			<p id="id01895">So sudden was this move that it caught De Morbihan himself unprepared. In an instant Lanyard had ten yards’ lead. In another he was spinning on two wheels round an acute corner, into the rue Jean Goujon; and in a third, as he shot through that short block to the avenue d’Antin, had increased his lead to fifteen yards. But he could never hope to better that: rather, the contrary. The pursuit had the more powerful car, and it was captained by one said to be the most daring and skilful motorist in France.</p>
			<p id="id01896">The considerations that dictated Lanyard’s simple strategy were sound if unformulated: barring interference on the part of the police⁠—something he dared not count upon⁠—his sole hope lay in open flight and in keeping persistently to the better-lighted, main-travelled thoroughfares, where a repetition of the attempt would be inadvisable⁠—at least, less probable. There was always a bare chance of an accident⁠—that De Morbihan’s car would burst a tire or be pocketed by the traffic, enabling Lanyard to strike off into some maze of dark side-streets, abandon the cab, and take to cover in good earnest.</p>
			<p id="id01897">But that was a forlorn hope at best, and he knew it. Moreover, an accident was as apt to happen to him as to De Morbihan: given an unsound tire or a puncture, or let him be delayed two seconds by some traffic hindrance, and nothing short of a miracle could save him.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01898">As he swung from the avenue d’Antin into Rond Point des Champs Élysées, the nose of the pursuing car inched up on his right, effectually blocking any attempt to strike off toward the east, to the Boulevards and the centre of the city’s life by night. He had no choice but to fly westwards.</p>
			<p id="id01899">He cut an arc round the sexpartite circle of the Rond Point that lost no inch of advantage, and straightened out, ventre-a-terre, up the avenue for the place de l’Etoile, shooting madly in and out of the tide of more leisurely traffic⁠—and ever the motor of the touring-car purred contentedly just at his elbow.</p>
			<p id="id01900">If there were police about, Lanyard saw nothing of them: not that he would have dreamed of stopping or even of checking speed for anything less than an immovable obstacle.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01901">But as minutes sped it became apparent that there was to be no renewed attempt upon his life for the time being. The pursuers could afford to wait. They could afford to ape the patience of Death itself.</p>
			<p id="id01902">And it came then to Lanyard that he drove no more alone: Death was his passenger.</p>
			<p id="id01903">Absorbed though he was with the control of his machine and the ever-shifting problems of the road, he still found time to think quite clearly of himself, to recognize the fact that he was very likely looking his last on Paris⁠ ⁠… on life.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01904">But a little longer, and the name of Michael Lanyard would be not even a memory to those whose lives composed the untiring life of this broad avenue.</p>
			<p id="id01905">Before him the Arc de Triomphe loomed ever larger and more darkly beautiful against the field of midnight stars He wondered, would he reach it alive.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01906">He did: still the pursuit bided its time. But the hood of the touring-car nosed him inexorably round the arch, away from the avenue de la Grande Armee and into the avenue du Bois.</p>
			<p id="id01907">Only when in full course for Porte Dauphine did he appreciate De Morbihan’s design. He was to be rushed out into the midnight solitudes of the Bois de Boulogne and there run down and slain.</p>
			<p id="id01908">But now he began to nurse a feeble thrill of hope.</p>
			<p id="id01909">Once inside the park enclosure, he reckoned vaguely on some opportunity to make sudden halt, abandon the car and, taking refuge in the friendly obscurity of trees and shrubbery, either make good his escape afoot or stand off the Apaches until police came to his aid. With night to cloak his movements and with a clump of trees to shelter in, he dared believe he would have a chance for his life⁠—whereas in naked streets any such attempt would prove simply suicidal.</p>
			<p id="id01910">Infrequent glances over-shoulder showed no change in the gap between his own and the car of the assassins. But his motor ran sweet and true: humouring it, coaxing it, he contrived a little longer to hold his own.</p>
			<p id="id01911">Approaching the Porte Dauphine he became aware of two sergents de ville standing in the middle of the way and wildly brandishing their arms. He held on toward them relentlessly⁠—it was their lives or his⁠—and they leaped aside barely in time to save themselves.</p>
			<p id="id01912">And as he slipped into the park like a hunted shadow, he fancied that he heard a pistol-shot⁠—whether directed at himself by the Apaches, or fired by the police to emphasize their indignation, he couldn’t say. But he was grateful enough it was a taxicab he drove, not a touring-car: lacking the body of his vehicle to shield him, he little doubted that a bullet would long since have found him.</p>
			<p id="id01913">In that dead hour the drives of the Bois were almost deserted. Between the porte and the first carrefour he passed only one motorcar, a limousine whose driver shouted something inarticulate as Lanyard hummed past. The freedom from traffic dangers was a relief: but the pursuit was creeping up, inch by inch, as he swung down the roadway along the eastern border of the lake; and still he had found no opening, had recognized no invitation in the lay of the land to attempt his one plan; as matters stood, the Apaches would be upon him before he could jump from his seat.</p>
			<p id="id01914">Bending low over the wheel, searching with anxious eyes the shadowed reaches of that winding drive, he steered for a time with one hand, while the other tore open his ulster and brought his pistol into readiness.</p>
			<p id="id01915">Then, as he topped the brow of the incline, above the whine of his motor, the crackle of road-metal beneath the tires, and the boom of the rushing air in his ears, he heard the sharp clatter of hoofs, and surmised that the gendarmerie had given chase.</p>
			<p id="id01916">And then, on a slight downgrade, though he took it at perilous speed and seemed veritably to ride the wind, the following machine, aided by its greater weight, began to close in still more rapidly. Momentarily the hoarse snoring of its motor sounded more loud and menacing. It was now a mere question of seconds.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p id="id01917">Inspiration of despair came to him, as wild as any ever conceived by mind of man.</p>
			<p id="id01918">They approached a point where, on the left, a dense plantation walled the road. To the right a wide foot walk separated the drive from a gentle declivity sown with saplings, running down to the water.</p>
			<p id="id01919">Rising in his place, Lanyard slipped from under him the heavy waterproof cushion.</p>
			<p id="id01920">Then edging over to the left of the middle of the road, abruptly he shut off power and applied the brakes with all his might.</p>
			<p id="id01921">From its terrific speed the cab came to a stop within twice its length.</p>
			<p id="id01922">Lanyard was thrown forward against the wheel, but having braced in anticipation, escaped injury and effected instant recovery.</p>
			<p id="id01923">The car of the Apaches was upon him in a pulse-beat. With no least warning of his intention, De Morbihan had no time to employ brakes. Lanyard saw its dark shape flash past the windows of his cab and heard a shout of triumph. Then with all his might he flung the heavy cushion across that scant space, directly into the face of De Morbihan.</p>
			<p id="id01924">His aim was straight and true.</p>
			<p id="id01925">In alarm, unable to comprehend the nature of that large, dark, whirling mass, De Morbihan attempted to lift a warding elbow. He was too slow: the cushion caught him in the face, full-force, and before he could recover or guess what he was doing, he had twisted the wheel sharply to the right.</p>
			<p id="id01926">The car, running a little less than locomotive speed, shot across the strip of sidewalk, caught its right forewheel against a sapling, swung heavily broadside to the drive, and turned completely over as it shot down the slope to the lake.</p>
			<p id="id01927">A terrific crash was followed by a hideous chorus of oaths, shrieks, cries and groans. Promptly Lanyard started his motor anew and, trembling in every limb, ran on for several hundred yards. But time pressed, and the usefulness of his car was at an end, as far as he was concerned; there was no saying how many times its identity might not have been established by the police in the course of that wild chase through Paris, or how soon these last might contrive to overhaul and apprehend him; and as soon as a bend in the road shut off the scene of wreck, he stopped finally, jumped down, and plunged headlong into the dark midnight heart of the Bois, seeking its silences where trees stood thickest and lights were few.</p>
			<p id="id01928">Later, like some worried creature of the night, panting, dishevelled, his rough clothing stained and muddied, he slunk across an open space, a mile or so from his point of disappearance, dropped cautiously down into the dry bed of the moat, climbed as stealthily a slippery glacis of the fortifications, darted across the inner boulevard, and began to describe a wide arc toward his destination, the hotel Omber.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
